The Chinese port city of Qingdao plans to test some nine million people in the coming five days, after 12 locally-transmitted coronavirus cases were reported sparking concerns of a wider outbreak. China has been largely coronavirus free since mid-August, with all cases reported by the country imported from elsewhere. But as of October 11, Qingdao has reported a dozen locally transmitted cases, all of which have been linked to a hospital treating imported infections, the city's Municipal Health Commission said in a statement Monday. Mass testing has already been carried out at the Qingdao Chest Hospital, which has been placed on lockdown, with 114,862 people, staff and patients, having tested negative as of Monday. Testing will now be rolled out citywide for the entire population of nine million, repeating the type of mass response previously seen in Beijing and other cities across China where clusters of infections have been detected. Those responses have been successful in keeping China's overall infection rate low since the country's initial outbreak was suppressed in March. That has enabled life to return to relative normality, with more than 600 million tourists traveling this month for Golden Week, a national holiday around the Mid-Autumn Festival. The cluster in Qingdao, a city on the eastern coast home to numerous beaches and popular with tourists, will raise fears of a potential spike in cases related to the holiday. Authorities in the port city said the specific source of infection was still under investigation. As of this week, China has recorded 85,578 confirmed cases and 4,634 deaths from the coronavirus, according to the country's National Health Commission.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention looked at how likely adults were to say they had remembered to wash their hands in six scenarios: after using the bathroom at home; after using the bathroom in public; after coughing, sneezing or blowing their nose; before eating at home; before eating at a restaurant; and before preparing food at home. Comparing October 2019 with June 2020, the odds of a person remembering to wash their hands after coughing, sneezing or nose blowing were 2.3 times higher in 2020; before eating at a restaurant were 2.0 times higher; and before eating at home were 1.7 times higher, according to research published in the CDC's Prevention's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly. In 2020, 71.2% of participants reported remembering to wash their hands after coughing, sneezing or blowing their noses compared with 53.3% in 2019. For eating at a restaurant, the number increased from 55.2% in 2019 to 70.6% in 2020 and before eating it home it went from 62.8% in 2019 to 74.4% in 2020. Hand hygiene is one key way to reduce the spread of the coronavirus, as well as other other pathogens. Men and women both reported washing their hands more frequently before eating at home or in a restaurant and after coughing, sneezing or blowing their noses in 2020. In both 2019 and 2020, "higher percentages of older adults, women, Black persons, and Hispanic persons reported remembering to wash their hands in multiple situations than did young adults, men, and White adults," the report said. Older adults, Black people and Hispanic people are disproportionately affected by Covid-19, the authors said, so it's particularly important to engage with them about preventive behaviors. The study does have some limitations, including the fact that the design does not specify whether changes in handwashing were due to the pandemic and that the survey relied on self-reported data.
A pandemic of the novel coronavirus has now killed more than 1 million people worldwide. Over 37.6 million people across the globe have been diagnosed with COVID-19, the disease caused by the new respiratory virus, according to data compiled by the Center for Systems Science and Engineering at Johns Hopkins University. The criteria for diagnosis -- through clinical means or a lab test -- has varied from country-to-country. Still, the actual numbers are believed to be much higher due to testing shortages, many unreported cases and suspicions that some national governments are hiding or downplaying the scope of their outbreaks. Since the first cases were detected in China in December, the virus has rapidly spread to every continent except Antarctica. The United States is the worst-affected country, with more than 7.7 million diagnosed cases and at least 214,771 deaths. California has the most cases of any U.S. state, with more than 855,000 people diagnosed, according to Johns Hopkins data. California is followed by Texas and Florida, with over 818,000 cases and over 736,000 cases, respectively. More than 190 vaccine candidates for COVID-19 are being tracked by the World Health Organization, at least 10 of which are in crucial phase three studies. Of those 10 potential vaccines in late-stage trials, there are currently five that will be available in the United States if approved.
Johnson&Johnson announced Monday night that it is pausing its coronavirus vaccine trial after one of its study participants came down with an unexplained illness.The pharmaceutical company is currently in the Phase 3 Ensemble stage of its trials. Following our guidelines, the participant’s illness is being reviewed and evaluated by the ENSEMBLE independent Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) as well as our internal clinical and safety physicians the company said in a statement. The company added that adverse events illnesses, accidents, etc. even those that are serious are an expected part of any clinical study. Johnson&Johnson said it is working to gather more facts about the situation before it shares more information with the public. According to the World Health Organization, there are 10 vaccines currently in late-stage Phase 3 trials.
Four Swiss Guards have tested positive for coronavirus and were showing symptoms, the Vatican said Monday, as the surge in infections in surrounding Italy penetrates the Vatican walls. The Swiss Guards, the world’s oldest standing army, provide ceremonial guard duty during papal Masses, man the Vatican gates and help protect the 83-year-old Pope Francis. The four are in isolation while their contacts are being traced, the Vatican said Monday. They join three other Vatican residents who tested positive in recent weeks plus the dozen or so Holy See officials who tested positive during the first wave of the outbreak. Despite the positive cases among his own guards, Francis on Monday was seen once again without a mask. He warmly greeted Cardinal George Pell in his private studio, and neither man wore a mask. Also unmasked were Pell’s secretary and the Vatican photographer. Francis, who lost part of one lung to illness when he was a young man, has drawn sharp criticism in social media for shunning a mask during his Wednesday general audience, held last week indoors. He was seen shaking hands with clerics and otherwise mingling with the masked crowd. His bodyguards were similarly maskless. Italy is seeing a sharp surge in COVID-19 cases, with the Lazio region around the Vatican among the worst-hit in this second wave of the pandemic. Lazio currently has more people hospitalized with the virus than any other region, at 911, with 69 in intensive care. The Vatican last week amended its mask mandates to conform to that of Italy, requiring them indoors and out. The Vatican didn’t immediately respond when asked why Francis wasn’t wearing one to receive Pell. The guards, famous for their billowy blue, red and yellow striped uniforms, are all single Swiss men under age 30 and must be upstanding Catholics. They sign up for two-year tours of duty and live communally inside the Vatican City State. During their annual swearing in ceremony — usually held in May but postponed until Oct. 4 because of COVID-19 — none of the recruits donned a mask, even though they wear them while standing guard at the entrances to Vatican City.
As the heated race for the White House enters the home stretch, former Vice President Joe Biden and Democrats are vastly outspending President Donald Trump and Republicans on television and radio ad spending by more than $85 million in the final three weeks. From this week through Nov. 3, Biden, the Democratic Party and various pro-Biden outside groups have booked a total of $177.6 million worth of television and radio ad time, while Trump, the Republican Party and various pro-Trump outside groups have just $92.2 million on television and radio ad time, according to an analysis of ad spending data by media research firm Kantar/CMAG. The ever-widening spending gap comes as Biden's fundraising advantage over Trump becomes increasingly apparent. In the past few months, the Democratic presidential challenger has repeatedly outraised Trump, boasting a massive $140 million lead in cash on hand just last month, while the president's campaign has been seen making frequent cutbacks on campaign and ad spending. But while the Biden campaign itself is spending more than the Trump campaign, pro-Biden outside groups are the ones driving the drastic gap in the ad war between the two presidential candidates. In the final three weeks of the presidential election, the Biden campaign and Democratic National Committee have booked $75 million on airtime, while Trump and the Republican Party have about $65 million. Outside of the campaigns and the parties, pro-Biden efforts have a whopping $102 million booked in the final few weeks, with much of that coming from a relatively new liberal super PAC Future Forward PAC, as well as major liberal groups Priorities USA and the Michael Bloomberg-backed Independence USA. In contrast, pro-Trump outside efforts, headed by America First Action, a super PAC endorsed by the president, and Preserve America, a new super PAC backed by major GOP donors, only have $27 million booked on television and radio time in the final three weeks. Florida, which is expected to be one of the key battle ground states in November, is the biggest target from both the Biden side and the Trump side, with $42 million and $27 million worth of ad blitz booked, respectively, until Election Day. Other key states like Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and North Carolina are also among top investments from the both sides. Biden and Democrats are also making big investments in Arizona and Nevada, while Trump and Republicans are spending a relatively larger amount in Ohio.
U.S. health officials urge use of HIV pill for at-risk individuals - U.S. health officials on Wednesday issued new recommendations urging healthcare workers to consider offering an HIV prevention pill to healthy individuals who are at substantial risk for HIV infection.
Two sick U.S. hospital workers test negative for MERS virus - Two U.S. hospital workers who fell ill after contact with a patient suffering from Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) have tested negative for the often-deadly virus, a Florida health official said on Wednesday.
Deadly Illness in Nicaragua Baffles ExpertsAcross Central America, a kidney disease has killed at least 20,000 people over a decade and is so poorly understood that it does not have a universally agreed upon name.
Scientists unearth unique long-necked dinosaur in Argentina - It's not exactly small at 30 feet long (9 meters), but you might want to call this newly identified dinosaur the littlest giant.
Scientists, drugmakers, charities sign UK deal on animal research - More than 70 medical bodies in Britain, including Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca, have signed a pledge to be more open about their use of animals in scientific experiments.
Scientists invent new letters for the alphabet of life - Scientists have taken the first steps toward writing the blueprint of life in an alphabet unknown to nature, they reported online in the journal Nature.
Scientists help Galapagos finches combat killer maggots - Which nest is best to eliminate a blood-sucking pest? Scientists seeking to help endangered Galapagos Islands birds survive a deadly parasitic threat put that question to the test.
Scientists vexed in probe of North American starfish deaths - Scientists are struggling to find the cause of a disease that is killing off numerous species of starfish on both the Pacific and Atlantic coasts of North America, dispatching the five-armed creatures in a particularly gruesome way.
Researchers say Neanderthals were not our dimwitted inferiors - No offense, but your ancestors probably were no brighter than a Neanderthal.
Mars Science Lab launch delayed two years NASA's launch of the Mars Science Laboratory - hampered by technical difficulties and cost overruns has been delayed until the fall of 2011, NASA officials said at a news conference Thursday in Washington. 
Golf's new boy wonder? He's been mistaken for Tiger Woods' ball-boy, but that won't be the case when golf's latest amateur prodigy Matt Fitzpatrick tees off at the Masters this week.
Top golf courses in the worksAfter several years of stagnation, money is flowing again into both mothballed and new projects in the UAE.
Annika Sorenstam in full swing - The most successful woman ever in the game, ten-time Major winner Annika Sorenstam shares some lessons at her academy in Florida.
Golf returns to OlympicsLiving Golf's Shane O'Donoghue meets the architect behind Rio 2016's Olympic golf course.
Golf CapsulesMartin Kaymer produced one of the most unlikely pars on the 17th green at the TPC Sawgrass without ever going in the water. It carried him to a one-shot victory Sunday in The Players Championship that was emotional in so many ways.
Why England can't compete. England may be the home of football but has the success of the Premier League left English football in jeopardy?
Brazil tackles child prostitution. The newly-renovated Castelao football stadium looms up ahead. Driving past it, we see women standing on street corners, leaning into cars and flashing nearly naked bodies in the low light.
Football's Monopoly game fair or farce? Three small letters striking like a dagger to the heart of football's richest football clubs.
Cracking football's glass ceiling. French second-tier side Clermont Foot has hinted at a new dawn for football after appointing the country's first ever professional female coach.
Real Madrid top soccer rich list. Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid will go head-to-head later this month to decide which football club is the finest in Europe but, when it comes to the bottom line, there is only one winner.
Racism endemic in Spanish football? World and European champions on the football pitch, but blighted by endemic racism in the stands.
Neymar backs 'peaceful' protests. Brazil's star footballer Neymar has given the thumbs up to political protests during this summer's World Cup in Brazil - as long as they are peaceful.
Atletico in dream final. Atletico Madrid defeats Chelsea to book its place in the final of the Champions League and set up a clash with city rival Real in Lisbon on May 24.
Super Eagle who flew to greatness - When Sunday Oliseh was a young boy kicking a football around the dusty streets of Lagos, he never dreamed he would one day carry the hopes of 170 million people on the world's biggest sporting stage.
Can FBI help stop World Cup protests? Rubber bullets, drones and FBI-trained riot police. Welcome to Brazil's 2014 World Cup - will protests overshadow football's showpiece event?